The Joe Rogan experience.
There has been research done on making artificial insects that have like little
cameras inside of them. Yep. That look like, like a dragonfly or some,
some sort of bug and they fly around and they could film things.
And the thing that terrifies a lot of people is going more microscopic than
that. More like, uh, robots inside the body that's help you cure disease.
And so on cope certain things, even at the nano scale.
So basically creating viruses. Yeah. Creating new viruses, that little.
Tiny ones.
Yeah. And they, if they learn, they can be pretty dumb, but on a mass scale
dumb, you don't have to be intelligent to destroy all of, of civilization. So,
uh.
<Laugh> so the real question about this artificial intelligence stuff that
everybody seems to the ultimate end of the line, the,
what Sam Harris is terrified of,
is it becoming sentient and it making its own decisions and deciding that
we don't need people. That's what everybody's really scared of. Right.
<affirmative>.
I, I'm not sure if everybody's scared of it. Yeah. They might be.
I think that's a story that's the most compelling, the sexiest story that,
uh, the philosopher side of a Sam Harris is very, is very attracted to. Yeah.
Uh, I am also interested in that story, but I think achieving Saint,
I think that requires also creating consciousness.
I think that that requires creating the kind of intelligence and cognition and
reasoning abilities. That's really, really difficult.
I think we'll create dangerous software based systems before then there'll be a
huge threat. I think we already have them, the YouTube, a,
the Twitter,
the recommender systems of Twitter and Facebook and YouTube from everything I
know having talked to those folks, having worked on it, the,
the challenging aspect there is they have the power to control
minds, the mass sort of what the mass population thinks and
YouTube itself and Twitter itself don't have direct ability to
control the algorithm. Exactly. Like the one,
they don't have a way to understand the algorithm and two,
they don't have a way to control it because,
but what I mean by control is control it in a way that leads to
in a aggregate, a better civilization, meaning like sort of, uh,
the Stephen pink or the better angio V nature.
So encourag the better sides of ourselves.
It's very difficult to control a single algorithm that
recommends the,
the journey of millions of people through the space of the internet.
It's very difficult to control that.
And I think that intelligence instilled in those algorithms will have a
much more potentially either positive or detrimental effect than
sentient killer robots.
I hope we get to sentient killer robots <laugh> because that problem,
I think we can work with. I I'm,
I'm very optimistic about the positive aspects of approaching sentience of
approaching general intelligence. There's going to be a huge amount of benefit.
And I think there will be a there's a lot of mechanism can protect
against that going wrong just from knowing the,
we know how to control intelligent systems when
they are sort of in a box when they're singular systems,
when they're distributed across millions of people.
And there's not a single control point that becomes really difficult. Mm.
And that's, that's the way worry for me is, um,
the distributed nature of dumb algorithms on every single phone sort of,
sort of controlling the behavior, adjusting the behavior,
adjusting the learning journey of different individuals. So like, to me,
the biggest worry and the more exciting things is recommender systems.
What they're called at Twitter at Facebook at YouTube, um,
YouTube, especially that one, that one has just like,
I think you mentioned there's something special about videos in terms of
educating and sometimes indoctrinating people. Yeah. And YouTube
has the hardest time. I mean,
they such a difficult problem on their hands in terms of,
in terms of that recommendation because they don't, uh, this is a,
this is a machine learning problem,
but knowing the contents of tweets is much easier than knowing the contents of
videos. Mm. Like we,
our algorithms are really dumb in terms of being able to watch a video
understand what's being talked about. Right.
So all it's all YouTube was looking at is the title and the description.
And that's it mostly the title it's, it's like basically keyword searching.
Yeah. And it's looking at the,
at the clicking viewing behavior of the different people.
So like it figures out that the flat earth, uh,
supporters enjoy these kinds of videos,
it forms a different kind of cluster and, you know,
makes decisions based on that, by the way,
it seems to make definitive decisions about, you know,
it doesn't like flat earth YouTube, I think, well.
YouTube in particular are,
they're trying to do something about the influx of conspiracy theory,
videos. Yeah. And the indoctrination aspect of them that,
you know, one of the things about videos is like, say, if someone makes a video
and, um, they make it on a very particular subject and they speak eloquently and
articulately, but they're wrong about everything they're saying,
they don't understand the science.
Say if they're talking about artificial intelligence,
they're saying something thing about things that you are an expert in. They,
they could,
without being checked without someone like you in the room that says that's not
possible because of X, Y, and Z, without that they can just keep talking.
So one of the things they do,
whether it's about flat earth or whether it's about dinosaurs being fake or
nuclear bombs being fake,
they can just say these things and they do it with a,
an excellent grasp of the English language. Right? So they say it they're,
they're very compelling in the way they speak.
They'll show you pictures and images and if are not very educated and you
don't understand that this is nonsense. And if you're, especially,
if you're not skeptical, you can get roped in. Yeah.
You can get roped in real easy. And that's a problem.
And it's a problem with some of the people that work in these
platforms, their children get indoctrinated and they get angry,
their children get indoctrine.
Now what's interesting is they get indoctrinated also with
right wing ideology.
And then people get mad that they're indoctrinated by like Ben Shapiro videos.
So they'll, they'll, they'll get off of that. Well,
but you're okay with left wing, right. Why? Because you're left wing.
So then it becomes like, okay, what is a problem? What's really a problem.
And what is just something that's opposed to your personal ideology and how,
who gets to make that distinction.
And that is where the arguments for the first amendment come into play.
Like should these social media companies that have massive
amounts of power in and influence,
should they be held to the same standards as the first amendment?
And should these platforms be treated as essentially, uh,
a town hall, like where anyone can speak and there's a, you know, a, a platform.
And there's a real problem in that. There's not that many of 'em.
This is a real problem. Yeah. The real problem is like,
Twitter is the place where people go to argue and talk about. And then.
Twitter maybe has a competitor on Facebook, but YouTube certainly doesn't.
Have a competitor. YouTube doesn't have any competitor. I mean, there's Vimeo,
there's a few other platforms, but realistically it's YouTube. Yeah.
You know, YouTube, it's a giant giant platform.
What is this alphabet reports?
YouTube ad revenue for the first time video service generated
15.1 billion in 2019. Holy.
<laugh>.
In comparison. I just looked up, uh, Twitch ad revenue was, uh,
supposedly around 500 to 600 million.
That's a big difference. And what about Facebook?
Facebook is stupendously valuable probably way higher than.
That, but this is the first time.
I report Facebook.
I don't pays like YouTube paid for my McDonald's burgers
yesterday. Facebook's not right. Facebook is not in Twitter and Instagram.
I don't think are paying you like.
Directly, but there's a lot of calls to break up Facebook. I'm not, I mean,
I'm on Facebook, but I'm not on it. I don't use it. I just,
it's just connected to my Instagram. When I post something on Instagram,
it goes to Facebook as well. I don't, I never go to.
Facebook. That's a Joe Rogan Facebook group. That's,
that's a dumpster fire of brilliant folks. Let me just put it that.
Way. <laugh> look at this Facebook's revenues amounted to 21.8 billion
is just the fourth quarter. Jesus Christ. Just the fourth quarter,
the majority of which were generated through advertising.
The company announced over 7 million active advertisers on Facebook during the
third order of 2019. That.
Probably though also adds an Instagram. That thing with YouTube is just YouTube.
Not Google, not YouTube premium.
Not anything else.
Just the address and, uh, to be fair. So the, the cash they have, they spend,
um, like Facebook, AI research groups, uh, some of the most brilliant,
it's a huge group. That's doing general open ended research, Google, uh,
research, Google brain, Google deep mind, they're doing open-ended research.
Like they're not doing the ad stuff. They're really trying to build. It's it's,
that's the cool thing about these companies having a lot of cash is they can
bring some of the smartest people and let them work on whatever in case it comes
up with a cool idea, like autonomous vehicles with Waymo. Yeah. It's like,
let's see if we can make this work. Let's throw some money at it.
Even if it doesn't make any money in the next 5, 10, 20 years,
let's make it work.
That's the positive sort of side of having that kind of money. Yeah.
That makes sense that there is, as long as they keep doing those kind of things.
The real concern though,
is that they're actually severely influencing the democratic process.
So I, it, it is di it's difficult. I mean, certainly in Jack Dorsey,
Jack Dorsey in terms of the CEOs interact with,
I think was one of the good guys. Yes.
I agree. Yeah.
I mean, he's, uh.
He wants a wild west Twitter.
Well, he doesn't know he wants, he wants a good Twitter. He,
he's kind of thinking about wild west, but.
He wants he's his have 2 0 2 Twitter,
one that's filtered one that's like crypto, anything goes.